Document technical infrastructure (#132)
OpenRailAssociation/technical-committee: project-handbook/technical-infrastructure.md

# Overview of OpenRail's Technical Infrastructure

The technical infrastructure of the OpenRail Association is comprised of various components to enable the work of the OpenRail projects as well as of different working groups such as the *OpenRail Team*.

For the composition, we follow these principles:

* We prefer Open Source

> * We chose software and services based on whether they are feasible and pragmatic

Reviewer: nit: this looks like a typo for "choose"

> * We prefer using hosted services instead of self-hosting

Reviewer: It might be useful to explain why (also, are those points ordered?)

Author: Thanks. I added a sentence that may somewhat explain the ordering - they are not, it's `<ul>` ;). Regarding explanation, I could have probably written at least 3 paragraphs about each of these points but I don't believe that'd be overly useful as we may discuss each case individually. It's not a law, it's a snapshot of the guidelines we applied to far.

* We strive for ease of access and use for the respective users and teams
* We appreciate modularity, and accept incremental improvements when perfection is not possible

## Governance

The *Technical Infrastructure Manager*, part of the OpenRail Team, is responsible for the overall infrastructure. They do this in close collaboration with the *Technical Committee* as well as other users inside the organisation. They can define assistants to avoid that all knowledge and accesses reside with only one person.

> The current Technical Infrastructure Manager is Max Mehl ([@mxmehl](https://github.com/@mxmehl)). He is assisted by Cornelius Schumacher ([@cornelius](https://github.com/@cornelius)).

Author: I'm not sure what exactly your suggestion is, but we won't touch the roles in 2024, as it's part of the whole OpenRail Team setup which is static for this year.
Regarding mentioning individuals, I am quite fond of making this explicit in this document. So far, it's not a duplication, especially the assistance part.

> The current Technical Infrastructure Manager is Max Mehl ([@mxmehl](https://github.com/@mxmehl)). He is assisted by Cornelius Schumacher ([@cornelius](https://github.com/@cornelius)).

Reviewer 2: Not reopening it, just precising my idea:

I was suggesting to use "only" the list in the main README.md like so:
```md
The current members of the Technical Committee are:
* [...]
* [Cornelius Schumacher](https://github.com/cornelius) (DB Systel, appointed, Technical Infrastructure assistant)
* [...]

Permanent guests:

* [Max Mehl](https://github.com/mxmehl) (OpenRail Team's Technical Infrastructure Manager)
```

And here a link to the readme, something along:
```suggestion
Please consult to the [member list]../README.md#members) and their roles to identify persons in charge.
```

The benefit being to ease the maintenance when roles and persons change and avoid redundant information.
(another path is to be "redundant" for both).

## Domains

OpenRail Association registers and manages all of its domains via [INWX](https://www.inwx.com/), a Germany-based domain registrar. This also contains domains by OpenRail projects.

INWX supports sub-accounts which may be used to allow tools and other persons to access only specific parts of the account.

Projects may control their domains on their own. Please see [this document](./domain-names.md) for guidance and details.

## GitHub

> OpenRail Association prefers using GitHub.com for hosting of code, projects and documentation. All official repositories - e.g., by OpenRail projects, working groups, for administrative projects - must be part of the [OpenRailAssociation](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation) GitHub organisation.

Reviewer 3: This conflicts with "We prefer Open Source", and this leaves no door to escape GitHub's proprietary ecosystem for new projects. It would be nice to allow new projects to diverge and use e.g. Codeberg or GitLab, even if that implies duplicating some admin lists etc.

Author: I added a paragraph on that we sometimes cannot find a solution that matches all principles. In the case of GitHub, this was a strategic decision from the start that we want to have all projects together in one space to maximise visibility and make the threshold for collaboration and contributions minimal. Unfortunately, GH has the strongest network in this regard.

You're welcome to discuss that within the TC, but I'd vote for strictly sticking with GH for a longer time, even if it hurts part of my Free Software soul.

> OpenRail Association prefers using GitHub.com for hosting of code, projects and documentation. All official repositories - e.g., by OpenRail projects, working groups, for administrative projects - must be part of the [OpenRailAssociation](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation) GitHub organisation.

Reviewer: nit: I believe GitHub uses the "organization" spelling (international?), we might want to keep a consistent style

Author: I sticked to british english for this document. AFAIK we didn't talk about whether to use AE or BE inside OpenRail Association.

For this part, I consider it fine to use "organisation" as it's just the BE way of spelling this, and I don't believe GitHub's "organization" is a term in itself.

The MailEasy product as part of INWX's hosting services doesn't provide mail boxes but only forwards. This way, we can configure certain addresses such as `technical-committee@openrailassociation.org` to forward received emails to another address. In some instances, this is one or multiple persons individually (e.g. the Technical Infrastructure Manager), but more often its a larger group of people.

In these cases, we address these people using mailing lists. This allows for more fine-grained configuration of who can contact this group, and has advantages when dealing with anti-spam techniques such as SPF, DKIM and DMARC which often trigger when just using forwards.

There are a number of mailing lists we've set up on our mailing lists instance [lists.openrailassociation.org](https://lists.openrailassociation.org). As some of them shall be reachable by outside people, we've set up some forwards from the openrailassociation.org domain to certain lists.openrailassociation.org lists. One example is `technical-committee@openrailassociation.org` which forwards to `technical-committee@lists.openrailassociation.org`.

> When setting up new lists, make sure to have a look at the list configuration of lists which have the same or a similar use-case. The default settings are often not sufficient to make all email reach all people, especially regarding the top-level domain aliases and anti-spam measurements.

Reviewer 3: s/measurements/measures/

## Passwords

For the several services we are using, some require dedicated accounts and passwords, while others are ties to existing user accounts, e.g. GitHub.

> If we have to share passwords, we are using an hosted password vault. The Technical Infrastructure Manager manages this vault and provides access to other people, like their assistants, on a need-to-know basis. A sub-part of this vault may also be used by other teams if they require such a services. However, we generally prefer using pre-existing, personalised accounts.

Reviewer: nit: "a services" might be a typo for "a service" or "services"

> If we have to share passwords, we are using an hosted password vault. The Technical Infrastructure Manager manages this vault and provides access to other people, like their assistants, on a need-to-know basis. A sub-part of this vault may also be used by other teams if they require such a services. However, we generally prefer using pre-existing, personalised accounts.

Author: It's a vaultwarden service but not written in stone. We're still evaluating, it may also become the official Bitwarden paid instance if it's easier to use for all participants (e.g. because they're using it in other contexts as well and it integrates into their workflows better than another service).

## Website

> For website hosting, we prefer using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) over third-party providers or self-hosting. This is also used for the main [OpenRail Association website](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation/website), accessible via [openrailassociation.org](https://openrailassociation.org).

Reviewer: nit: having "also" and "main" in the same sentence sounds a bit funny to me, what are the other websites?

# Overview of OpenRail's Technical Infrastructure

The technical infrastructure of the OpenRail Association is comprised of various components to enable the work of the OpenRail projects as well as of different working groups such as the *OpenRail Team*.

For the composition, we follow these principles:

* We prefer using Open Source software and services

> * We choose software and services based on whether they are feasible and pragmatic

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* We pragmatically choose software and services based on their ability to address our specific needs.
```

The current Technical Infrastructure Manager is Max Mehl ([@mxmehl](https://github.com/@mxmehl)). He is assisted by Cornelius Schumacher ([@cornelius](https://github.com/@cornelius)).

## Domains

OpenRail Association registers and manages all of its domains via [INWX](https://www.inwx.com/), a Germany-based domain registrar. This also contains domains by OpenRail projects.

INWX supports sub-accounts which may be used to allow tools and other persons to access only specific parts of the account.

Projects may control their domains on their own. Please see [this document](./domain-names.md) for guidance and details.

## GitHub

OpenRail Association prefers using GitHub.com for hosting of code, projects and documentation. All official repositories - e.g., by OpenRail projects, working groups, for administrative projects - must be part of the [OpenRailAssociation](https://github.com/OpenRailAssociation) GitHub organisation.

For this GitHub organisation, we distribute permissions using Teams and a repository that follows a four-eyes and version-controlled paradigm. Please see [this document](./github-management.md) for guidance and details.

> In addition to the official GitHub organisation, there is a playground organisation with lower governance standards: [OpenRail-Playground](https://github.com/OpenRail-Playground). Only non-official projects must be hosted there. Permissions are controlled individually using the GitHub web interface.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition to the official GitHub organisation, there is an organisation for experimental and other projects which need a space for initial or temporary collaboration without being ready for an application as official project. It is the organisation [OpenRail-Playground](https://github.com/OpenRail-Playground). Permissions are controlled individually using the GitHub web interface.
```
